docs/assignments/midterm.md, before:

# Midterm Logistics

The midterm will have two parts: (1) a short, in-class portion, consisting
mostly of short answers (perhaps a few multiple-choice); (2) a take-home
portion, consisting of an add-on, extension of some of the hands-on activities
that we have worked on in class.

## In-Class (25%)

I will design the in-class version of the midterm to ask you largely factual
questions about the material that we have learned in class. I will design it
to be completed in about 30 minutes, but I will give you the whole class
period to do it.  We will resume our "regularly scheduled programming" when
everyone has turned in the assignment.

Think of this really like an in-class quiz, something I might have given you
at the beginning of each class to assure you are "following along", except
that we're just having a slightly longer version of that.

Topics and coverage: All topics through Lecture 8 (Week 4) will be covered for
the in-class portion.

Notes: This portion of the midterm will be closed notes, books, etc., except
you are permitted to bring one single-sided sheet of paper of notes. The point
of this exercise is largely to help you study. You probably won't need too
much of it, and relying on it too much may cost you time. Therefore, feel free
to use tiny font if you want, or work together to prepare notes. As I
mentioned, think of this as much as a study aid as anything else.

## Take-Home (75%)

The take-home portion will be an extension of the hands-on assignments in
class. I note that not everyone has finished all of the hands-on assignments,
although you do have most of the solutions (or at least some way of going
about the assignments). Therefore, expect the take-home to be:

* Applying some of the same concepts you've learned in the in-class hands-on
  assignments.
* Very likely I will ask you to apply these concepts to a new dataset.
* I may ask you to apply some concept we've talked about in class, but one for
  which the existing notebooks don't have the exact code example.
 
Notes: You can use *anything*. Stackoverflow, fine. But you *must* work
independently on this part of the midterm.

Deliverable: The deliverable will be a well-documented Jupyter notebook that
the course staff can (1) run; (2) understand.

Commit message:

revising instructions to apply to both midterm and final

docs/assignments/midterm.md, after:

# Midterm and Final Exam Logistics

The midterm and final exam will each have two parts: (1) a short, in-class
portion, consisting mostly of short answers (perhaps a few multiple-choice);
(2) a take-home portion, consisting of an add-on, extension of some of the
hands-on activities that we have worked on in class.

## In-Class (25%)

I will design the in-class version of the exam to ask you largely factual
questions about the material that we have learned in class. I will design it
to be completed in about 30 minutes, but I will give you the whole class
period to do it.  We will resume our "regularly scheduled programming" when
everyone has turned in the assignment.

Think of this really like an in-class quiz, something I might have given you
at the beginning of each class to assure you are "following along", except
that we're just having a slightly longer version of that.

Topics and coverage: All topics through Lecture 8 (Week 4) will be covered for
the in-class portion.

Notes: This portion of the exam will be closed notes, books, etc., except
you are permitted to bring one single-sided sheet of paper of notes. The point
of this exercise is largely to help you study. You probably won't need too
much of it, and relying on it too much may cost you time. Therefore, feel free
to use tiny font if you want, or work together to prepare notes. As I
mentioned, think of this as much as a study aid as anything else.

## Take-Home (75%)

The take-home portion will be an extension of the hands-on assignments in
class. I note that not everyone has finished all of the hands-on assignments,
although you do have most of the solutions (or at least some way of going
about the assignments). Therefore, expect the take-home to be:

* Applying some of the same concepts you've learned in the in-class hands-on
  assignments.
* Very likely I will ask you to apply these concepts to a new dataset.
* I may ask you to apply some concept we've talked about in class, but one for
  which the existing notebooks don't have the exact code example.
 
Notes: You can use *anything*. Stackoverflow, fine. But you *must* work
independently on this part of the exam.

Deliverable: The deliverable will be a well-documented Jupyter notebook that
the course staff can (1) run; (2) understand.
