docs/index.md, before:

# Machine Learning for Computer Systems

## Course Description

## Structure

Each lecture has a set of slides/notes explaining concepts and an associated
reading. Please do the reading before class. Slides or notes will be posted
after each class.

Whenever possible, lectures will also have an accompanying Jupyter Notebook
with example applications from computer systems to make the concepts more
concrete.

## Schedule 

| Lecture                            | Topic                                   | Reading     | Assignment             |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------   | --------    | ----------             |
| 1                                  | Introduction                            | Ch. 1       |                        |
| **Use Cases**                      |                                         |             |                        |
| 2                                  | Performance                             | Ch. 2.1     |                        |
| 3                                  | Security                                | Ch. 2.2     |                        |
| **Data From Computer Systems**     |                                         |             |                        |
| 4                                  | Networked Systems                       |             |                        |
| 5                                  | Measurement                             | Ch. 3.2-3.3 | Measurement            |
| 6                                  | From Data to Analysis                   | Ch. 3.4     |                        |
| **Machine Learning Pipeline**      |                                         |             |                        |
| 7                                  | Data Preparation and Representation     |             | nprint/pcapML          |
| 8                                  | Model Training and Evaluation           |             |                        |
| **Supervised Learning**            |                                         |             |                        |
| 9                                  | Non-Parametric and Probabilistic Models |             |                        |
| 10                                 | Linear and Logistic Regression          |             |                        |
| 11                                 | Support Vector Machines                 |             |                        |
| 12                                 | Trees and Ensembles                     |             | Traffic Classification |
| **Unsupervised Learning **         |                                         |             |                        |
| 13                                 | Dimensionality Reduction                |             |                        |
| 14                                 | Clustering                              |             |                        |
| 15                                 | Semi-Supervised Learning                |             | Anomaly Detection      |
| **Machine Learning in Practice**   |                                         |             |                        |
| 16                                 | Systems and Deployment Costs            |             |                        |
| 17                                 | Robustness and Model Drift              |             |                        |
| 18                                 | Privacy, Ethics, and the Law            |             |                        |

Please come to class having done the reading. 

Each week will also have a short homework assignment and a short accompanying
quiz to track your knowledge of the material.

## Other Background Videos and Readings

* [Networking videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpherdrLyny-zJw95jcE-uJkcsIAG1MEn) will provide networking background.
* Videos on machine learning topics will also be posted.

Commit message:

course description and scheduling tweaks

docs/index.md, after:

# Machine Learning for Computer Systems

## Course Description

This course will cover topics at the intersection of machine learning and
systems, with a focus on applications of machine learning to computer systems.
Topics covered will include applications of machine learning models to
security, performance analysis, and prediction problems in systems; data
preparation, feature selection, and feature extraction; design, development,
and evaluation of machine learning models and pipelines; fairness,
interpretability, and explainability of machine learning models; and testing
and debugging of machine learning models.

The topic of machine learning for computer systems is broad. Given the
expertise of the instructor, many of the examples this term will focus on
applications to computer networking. Yet, many of these principles apply
broadly, across computer systems.

You can and should think of this course as a practical hands-on introduction
to machine learning models and concepts that will allow you to apply these
models in practice. We'll focus on examples from networking, but you will walk
away from the course with a good understanding of how to apply machine
learning models to real-world datasets, how to use machine learning to help
computer systems operate better, and the practical challenges with deploying
machine learning models in practice.

## Structure

Each lecture has a set of slides/notes explaining concepts and an associated
reading. Please do the reading before class. Slides or notes will be posted
after each class.

Whenever possible, lectures will also have an accompanying Jupyter Notebook
with example applications from computer systems to make the concepts more
concrete.

## Schedule 

| Lecture                            | Topic                                   | Reading     | Assignment             |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------   | --------    | ----------             |
| 1                                  | Introduction                            | Ch. 1       |                        |
| **Use Cases**                      |                                         |             |                        |
| 2                                  | Performance                             | Ch. 2.1     |                        |
| 3                                  | Security                                | Ch. 2.2     |                        |
| **Data From Computer Systems**     |                                         |             |                        |
| 4                                  | Networked Systems                       |             |                        |
| 5                                  | Measurement                             | Ch. 3.2-3.3 | Measurement            |
| 6                                  | From Data to Analysis                   | Ch. 3.4     |                        |
| **Machine Learning Pipeline**      |                                         |             |                        |
| 7                                  | Data Preparation and Representation     | Ch. 4.1     | nprint/pcapML          |
| 8                                  | Model Training and Evaluation           | Ch. 4.2     |                        |
| **Supervised Learning**            |                                         |             |                        |
| 9                                  | Non-Parametric and Probabilistic Models | Ch. 5       |                        |
| 10                                 | Linear and Logistic Regression          |             |                        |
| 11                                 | Support Vector Machines                 |             |                        |
| 12                                 | Trees and Ensembles                     |             | Traffic Classification |
| **Unsupervised Learning**          |                                         | Ch. 6       |                        |
| 13                                 | Dimensionality Reduction                |             |                        |
| 14                                 | Clustering                              |             |                        |
| 15                                 | Semi-Supervised Learning                |             | Anomaly Detection      |
| **Deployment Challenges**          |                                         |             |                        |
| 16                                 | Programmability and Automation          | Ch. 7.1     |                        |
| 17                                 | Systems and Deployment Costs            | Ch. 7.2     |                        |
| 18                                 | Privacy, Ethics, and the Law            | Ch. 7.3     |                        |

Please come to class having done the reading. 

Each week will also have a short homework assignment and a short accompanying
quiz to track your knowledge of the material.

## Other Background Videos and Readings

* [Networking videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpherdrLyny-zJw95jcE-uJkcsIAG1MEn) will provide networking background.
* Videos on machine learning topics will also be posted.
