docs/syllabus.md, before:

# Syllabus 

## Course Format and Structure

Each lecture will follow the following format:

* **Preparation**. Reading, typically from the textbook. 
* **Lecture/Q&A**. Background/review of the reading, with discussion-driven Q&A.
* **Case study.** This will involve a practical case study or application,
  through a research paper reading, case study example, or hands-on activity.
  Activities will have an accompanying Jupyter Notebook with
  example applications from computer systems to make the concepts more concrete.

Please do the reading before class. Notes (in the form of slides, whiteboard
notes, code, or whatever is most appropriate) will be posted after each
class.

All material will be available from the Github repository.

## Course Components and Grading

| Component     | Amount |
| --------      | ------ |
| Exams         | 45%    |
| Assignments   | 20%    |
| Project       | 30%    |
| Participation | 5%     |

**Exam.** The course will have a midterm exam and a final exam. The goal of these exams
will be to test your knowledge of concepts covered in class. The format and
administration of these examinations will be announced in class.

**Assignments.** The course will have approximately 3-5 hands-on programming
assignments (one every other week). These assignments will be logical
extensions of hands-on assignments in class. If you have a laptop, you should
be able to complete these assignments on personal computing equipment. If you
need computing resources, please ask.

**Important:** Assignments will be graded primarily for completion. While we
encourage the use of AI tools to assist with assignment completion (with proper
acknowledgment and explanation of your prompting approach), the key learning
objective is understanding the underlying concepts. We reserve the right to test
your understanding of assignment topics through various means including pop
quizzes in class, oral examinations, midterm/final exams, or other assessment
methods to ensure you have grasped the fundamental concepts behind the code.

**[Project.](assignments/project.md)** The course will have a small project. You will have two options
for completing the project. 

1. **ML/Net Leaderboard.** nPrint/pcapML; your goal will be to re-produce or extend some of the
   best-known machine learning results for various applications of machine
   learning in computer networking.

2. **Research.** You are welcome to work on an independent research project
   that involves machine learning and computer systems. This option is
   probably better suited for graduate students in computer science who are
   comfortable working on open-ended problems. Your project must be approved
   by the instructor, based on a concrete research proposal.
   
**Participation.** I do not take attendance; it is my job to make this course
interesting and something you find worth your time. If you find it is not, I
encourage you to find a way to get me that feedback (directly if you feel
comfortable, anonymously or indirectly otherwise). On the other hand, I do
encourage you to participate in discussions and be an active member of the
class. Simply put, don't just complete the assignments and ace the exams:
We're all members of a collective community here, and you often have as much
to teach the rest of the class, through your questions and perspectives, as I
do. Lack of participation deprives you of the experience of that interaction,
and deprives others of your valuable perspective. Come to class, be engaged.
We may have occasional in-class quizzes to track your engagement with the
material. These will be included in the participation grade, if applicable;
don't worry if you miss one.

## Prerequisites

The only pre-requisite for the course is **Introduction to Computer Systems**. In
this course, we assume basic knowledge of computer networking. The course will
review some of these topics, particularly as they pertain to network
measurement/management and data collection. 

The course will **not** cover basic concepts in networking or systems,
including basic network protocols and operating systems. If you are not
familiar with those topics or need a refresher, please see the resources at
the bottom of this page.

## Late Policy

We understand that sometimes life events occur and that it's not always
possible to meet every deadline. As such, we are willing to accept late
assignments according to the following policy:

* You start the term with a grace period "balance" of 96 hours.
* Each assignment will be due at 5:00 p.m. (Chicago Local Time) on the due date.
* For each assignment, every hour late (or fraction thereof) that you turn in
    the assignment will subtract one hour from your grace-period balance. For
    example, if you turn in your assignment at 6:02 p.m. on the due date, we will
    count this as two hours against your grace period.
* As long as your grace period balance is positive, you can turn in any
    assignment late without penalty. The grace period balance is recalculated 
    on every last submission.
* Once your grace period balance reaches zero, you will receive half credit for
    any assignment that you turn in, as long as you turn it in within one week of
    the due date. If your grace period balance is zero and you turn in an
    assignment more than one week late, you will receive no credit for the
    assignment. Important: You must still turn in all assignments to pass the
    course, even if you receive zero points on an assignment. Turning in all
    assignments is a necessary condition for passing.
* Excuses with medical documentation are a legitimate exception and will not
    count against your late period. Any other reasons for lateness—including but
    not limited to interviews, conferences, etc.—are not legitimate excuses and
    any resulting lateness will count against your grace period.

## Academic Honesty and Integrity

You are taking this class to learn. My goal is to teach you new concepts---any
attempts to circumvent that deprive you of the process of learning.  To that
end, you are responsible for doing your own work in this class. 

You may talk to the course staff and to other students (past and present)
about any assignments in this class. You can work together in discussing
**how** you approached a particular problem, as long as you acknowledge who
you worked with. 

"Modern" coding indeed involves a lot of copy/paste/adaptation of existing
code blocks, and such adaptation is permissible, within reason. If you find
approaches and solutions on the Internet to various problems in this class,
you are welcome to borrow ideas and approaches (and even copy code snippets,
with acknowledgment and links). **Please acknowledge all collaborators and
sources.** 

The primary activity that is not permitted it copying a solution
verbatim; if you find yourself running code that has been copy/pasted from
anywhere, pause and think. Ask the staff if you have questions about this
policy.

The University of Chicago has formal policies related to academic honesty and
plagiarism. We abide by these standards in this course. Depending on the
severity of the offense, you risk being dismissed altogether from the course.

No collaboration is permitted on quizzes or exams. All work submitted for the
project must properly cite ideas and work that are not those of the students
in the group.

## Use of AI Tools and Large Language Models

I acknowledge and even expect that you will use large language models (LLMs)
and other AI tools for assistance in completing assignments. This is perfectly
acceptable and encouraged. However, you are expected to understand the output
these tools generate.

AI-assisted coding improves efficiency, but only if you understand its outputs.
Just as I would not be able to evaluate an LLM-produced essay in philosophy if
I didn't understand the subject matter, these tools do you no good if you cannot
understand, evaluate, improve, debug, and iterate on their output.

Therefore, you are allowed to use AI tools to help automate anything you are
confident that you understand well enough to implement manually yourself. This
approach best simulates the real world, where you will inevitably need to know
how to use these tools well and to your advantage, but you will ultimately be
responsible for understanding the software and code that you produce.

When using AI tools, please acknowledge their use in your submissions and be
prepared to explain and defend any code or solutions you submit.

## Kindness, Respect, and Free Expression

Topics in this course, particularly those that touch on ethics, policy, the
law, and society,  may touch on topics that challenge your existing thinking,
and certain discussions may make you feel uncomfortable or challenged. 

To this end, we seek to make this class an inclusive environment, one of
mutual respect for others. The University of Chicago is committed to the
principles of free expression, and part of my duty as your instructor is to
help foster that environment. 

To achieve the vibrant intellectual atmosphere we aim for, an environment of
respect for each other is of utmost importance. Every person should conduct
themselves with integrity, compassion, and thoughtfulness so everyone feels
comfortable participating and benefits from a collective learning experience.

Think not only of what you say but *how* you say it.  

Participation and speaking up is critical to the vibrant intellectual
environment we all want to create among ourselves. I may not always be clear
in my own presentation (and I also make plenty of mistakes), but I will not
know that unless you speak up. If you have a question, there's a good chance
half of the class is probably thinking the same thing. Be bold.  

Finally, think about when to step back, so that everyone can have a chance to
speak.  To that end, I typically make a concerted effort to step back from
discussions myself---viewing my role as more of a facilitator---so that you
can feel free to speak. If I announce (or allude to) my opinion on a matter in
front of the class, that may make some of you less eager to share your own
viewpoints, which is also a fail.

Commit message:

Add optional reading responses to syllabus

docs/syllabus.md, after:

# Syllabus 

## Course Format and Structure

Each lecture will follow the following format:

* **Preparation**. Reading, typically from the textbook. 
* **Lecture/Q&A**. Background/review of the reading, with discussion-driven Q&A.
* **Case study.** This will involve a practical case study or application,
  through a research paper reading, case study example, or hands-on activity.
  Activities will have an accompanying Jupyter Notebook with
  example applications from computer systems to make the concepts more concrete.

Please do the reading before class. Notes (in the form of slides, whiteboard
notes, code, or whatever is most appropriate) will be posted after each
class.

All material will be available from the Github repository.

## Course Components and Grading

| Component     | Amount |
| --------      | ------ |
| Exams         | 45%    |
| Assignments   | 20%    |
| Project       | 30%    |
| Participation | 5%     |

**Exam.** The course will have a midterm exam and a final exam. The goal of these exams
will be to test your knowledge of concepts covered in class. The format and
administration of these examinations will be announced in class.

**Assignments.** The course will have approximately 3-5 hands-on programming
assignments (one every other week). These assignments will be logical
extensions of hands-on assignments in class. If you have a laptop, you should
be able to complete these assignments on personal computing equipment. If you
need computing resources, please ask.

**Important:** Assignments will be graded primarily for completion. While we
encourage the use of AI tools to assist with assignment completion (with proper
acknowledgment and explanation of your prompting approach), the key learning
objective is understanding the underlying concepts. We reserve the right to test
your understanding of assignment topics through various means including pop
quizzes in class, oral examinations, midterm/final exams, or other assessment
methods to ensure you have grasped the fundamental concepts behind the code.

**[Project.](assignments/project.md)** The course will have a small project. You will have two options
for completing the project. 

1. **ML/Net Leaderboard.** nPrint/pcapML; your goal will be to re-produce or extend some of the
   best-known machine learning results for various applications of machine
   learning in computer networking.

2. **Research.** You are welcome to work on an independent research project
   that involves machine learning and computer systems. This option is
   probably better suited for graduate students in computer science who are
   comfortable working on open-ended problems. Your project must be approved
   by the instructor, based on a concrete research proposal.
   
**Participation.** I do not take attendance; it is my job to make this course
interesting and something you find worth your time. If you find it is not, I
encourage you to find a way to get me that feedback (directly if you feel
comfortable, anonymously or indirectly otherwise). On the other hand, I do
encourage you to participate in discussions and be an active member of the
class. Simply put, don't just complete the assignments and ace the exams:
We're all members of a collective community here, and you often have as much
to teach the rest of the class, through your questions and perspectives, as I
do. Lack of participation deprives you of the experience of that interaction,
and deprives others of your valuable perspective. Come to class, be engaged.
We may have occasional in-class quizzes to track your engagement with the
material. These will be included in the participation grade, if applicable;
don't worry if you miss one.

**Optional Reading Responses.** Students may optionally submit reading
responses on any of the assigned readings. These responses help me identify
topics that would benefit from additional coverage or attention in class.
Submitting thoughtful reading responses can count toward your participation
grade.

## Prerequisites

The only pre-requisite for the course is **Introduction to Computer Systems**. In
this course, we assume basic knowledge of computer networking. The course will
review some of these topics, particularly as they pertain to network
measurement/management and data collection. 

The course will **not** cover basic concepts in networking or systems,
including basic network protocols and operating systems. If you are not
familiar with those topics or need a refresher, please see the resources at
the bottom of this page.

## Late Policy

We understand that sometimes life events occur and that it's not always
possible to meet every deadline. As such, we are willing to accept late
assignments according to the following policy:

* You start the term with a grace period "balance" of 96 hours.
* Each assignment will be due at 5:00 p.m. (Chicago Local Time) on the due date.
* For each assignment, every hour late (or fraction thereof) that you turn in
    the assignment will subtract one hour from your grace-period balance. For
    example, if you turn in your assignment at 6:02 p.m. on the due date, we will
    count this as two hours against your grace period.
* As long as your grace period balance is positive, you can turn in any
    assignment late without penalty. The grace period balance is recalculated 
    on every last submission.
* Once your grace period balance reaches zero, you will receive half credit for
    any assignment that you turn in, as long as you turn it in within one week of
    the due date. If your grace period balance is zero and you turn in an
    assignment more than one week late, you will receive no credit for the
    assignment. Important: You must still turn in all assignments to pass the
    course, even if you receive zero points on an assignment. Turning in all
    assignments is a necessary condition for passing.
* Excuses with medical documentation are a legitimate exception and will not
    count against your late period. Any other reasons for lateness—including but
    not limited to interviews, conferences, etc.—are not legitimate excuses and
    any resulting lateness will count against your grace period.

## Academic Honesty and Integrity

You are taking this class to learn. My goal is to teach you new concepts---any
attempts to circumvent that deprive you of the process of learning.  To that
end, you are responsible for doing your own work in this class. 

You may talk to the course staff and to other students (past and present)
about any assignments in this class. You can work together in discussing
**how** you approached a particular problem, as long as you acknowledge who
you worked with. 

"Modern" coding indeed involves a lot of copy/paste/adaptation of existing
code blocks, and such adaptation is permissible, within reason. If you find
approaches and solutions on the Internet to various problems in this class,
you are welcome to borrow ideas and approaches (and even copy code snippets,
with acknowledgment and links). **Please acknowledge all collaborators and
sources.** 

The primary activity that is not permitted it copying a solution
verbatim; if you find yourself running code that has been copy/pasted from
anywhere, pause and think. Ask the staff if you have questions about this
policy.

The University of Chicago has formal policies related to academic honesty and
plagiarism. We abide by these standards in this course. Depending on the
severity of the offense, you risk being dismissed altogether from the course.

No collaboration is permitted on quizzes or exams. All work submitted for the
project must properly cite ideas and work that are not those of the students
in the group.

## Use of AI Tools and Large Language Models

I acknowledge and even expect that you will use large language models (LLMs)
and other AI tools for assistance in completing assignments. This is perfectly
acceptable and encouraged. However, you are expected to understand the output
these tools generate.

AI-assisted coding improves efficiency, but only if you understand its outputs.
Just as I would not be able to evaluate an LLM-produced essay in philosophy if
I didn't understand the subject matter, these tools do you no good if you cannot
understand, evaluate, improve, debug, and iterate on their output.

Therefore, you are allowed to use AI tools to help automate anything you are
confident that you understand well enough to implement manually yourself. This
approach best simulates the real world, where you will inevitably need to know
how to use these tools well and to your advantage, but you will ultimately be
responsible for understanding the software and code that you produce.

When using AI tools, please acknowledge their use in your submissions and be
prepared to explain and defend any code or solutions you submit.

## Kindness, Respect, and Free Expression

Topics in this course, particularly those that touch on ethics, policy, the
law, and society,  may touch on topics that challenge your existing thinking,
and certain discussions may make you feel uncomfortable or challenged. 

To this end, we seek to make this class an inclusive environment, one of
mutual respect for others. The University of Chicago is committed to the
principles of free expression, and part of my duty as your instructor is to
help foster that environment. 

To achieve the vibrant intellectual atmosphere we aim for, an environment of
respect for each other is of utmost importance. Every person should conduct
themselves with integrity, compassion, and thoughtfulness so everyone feels
comfortable participating and benefits from a collective learning experience.

Think not only of what you say but *how* you say it.  

Participation and speaking up is critical to the vibrant intellectual
environment we all want to create among ourselves. I may not always be clear
in my own presentation (and I also make plenty of mistakes), but I will not
know that unless you speak up. If you have a question, there's a good chance
half of the class is probably thinking the same thing. Be bold.  

Finally, think about when to step back, so that everyone can have a chance to
speak.  To that end, I typically make a concerted effort to step back from
discussions myself---viewing my role as more of a facilitator---so that you
can feel free to speak. If I announce (or allude to) my opinion on a matter in
front of the class, that may make some of you less eager to share your own
viewpoints, which is also a fail.
